---
layout: post
title:  "Jekyll and Hyde"
date:   2016-03-31 23:25:00
categories: CPSC350
color: blue-grey
---

Jekyll - Something to replace Wordpress hopefully

# Jekyll

If you've been keeping up, you might have noticed that I am using Jekyll as my "Content Management System". It's not a true CMS like Wordpress or Drupal, but as a computer scientist, I can see why I love it so much already.

## Easy Themes

If you've used Wordpress, you know how easy it is to use a theme, but making themes is atrocious. If you want to mess around with a theme that you've found for Wordpress, good luck. Seriously. Wordpress doesn't make it easy to handle changing themes besides the "Pages" and "Posts" that you can create.

## Markdown

Thankfully there is something out there that I can use Markdown for besides Github. It is so easy to do all of your normal "blogy" stuff with Markdown. Jekyll gives you the option of using HTML or Markdownm, and you can guess which one I am using. Don't get me wrong, HTML is better for bigger sites because of all of the new features being added to HTML5, but Markdown is really easy to use for blog posts or portfolio websites.

## Javascript Heaven

I know Javascript is not the easiest to learn but you'll be happy to find out that Jekyll uses Javascript for most of the interactions between client and host. The pages seemlessly transition and I haven't had to modify the .js files for any reasons.

## Configure ALL the things

The *_config.yml* file is so easy to understand. You set a few global variables for your website and they can be used everywhere they are needed in the .js or .html files. It's also easy to modify extensions for Jekyll through *_config.yml*.

## Comments Made Easy

I have always had troubles getting comments to work on Wordpress sites and I have had to download 5 different plugins to prevent spambots. Oh, Jekyll has an extenion called [Disqus]. I don't need to say anything else.

## Afterthoughts

Needless to say, I am going to take my tutorials website off of Wordpress and convert it into a Jekyll site. I have seen what the code blocks look like and I am very impressed and jealous.

[Disqus]: https://disqus.com/
