---
layout: post
title:  "SocketIO"
date:   2016-04-02 23:15:00
categories: CPSC350
color: yellow
---

SocketIO - Real Time Communication between Client and Server

# SocketIO

So Flask has an easy implementation for Javascript code in order to do real time communication between clients and the server. Flask can use SocketIO, which is an AngularJS wrapper for Controllers that can easily send data back and forth from the frontend through Javascript and the backend will recieve the data.

# Flask-SocketIO

So again, you just need to install Flask-SocketIO, which is the Flask implementation of SocketIO. The code to have SocketIO driven calls is very similar to the Flask implementation of calls to the server. First, you need a Javascript function that will be called when something is clicked on the frontend of the website. Depending on what is clicked, data can be sent from the frontend to Javascript. Now the data has to be sent to a function that implements SocketIO in Flask.

``` Javascript 

$scope.setName = function setName(){
    socket.emit('identify', $scope.name)  
};

```

Now on the server side, the data is sent to the function that was named in the first parameter of socket.emit(). The second parameter is the data to be sent to Flask.

``` Python

@socketio.on('identify', namespace='/movie')
def on_identify(user):
    print('Identify: ' + user)
    users[session['uuid']] = {'username' : user}

```

Now if we wanted to send data back to Javascript to display something on the frontend, we could emit again from Flask. Again, the emit parameters are the same.

``` Python

@socketio.on('connect', namespace='/movie')
def onConnect():
    print('session on connect...')
    print(session)
    #session['uuid'] = uuid.uuid1()
    
    emit('on_connect', {'logged_in' : 'username' in session})

```

So we will use this function to send data back to Javascript.

``` Javascript

socket.on('on_connect', function(data){
       console.log('Connected'); 
       $scope.logged_in = data['logged_in'];
       console.log('logged in: ');
       console.log(data['logged_in']);
       $scope.$apply();
});

```

The code is a bit different because you are checking if a Socket recieves data from the server. If it does recieve data and it is sent to the right function, then the function is called.
