---
layout: post
title:  "About CPSC350"
date:   2016-03-31 21:00:00
categories: CPSC350
color: light-blue
---

Forewarning - This is a long post to explain the class environment that I had to build this Developer's blog.

# CPSC350 - Applications of Databases

So eventually with the Computer Science major at the University of Mary Washington, every student has to take CPSC350 Applications of Databases. This is a misnomer for many students because they think that this is a pure databases class. It is not. It is applying databases to skeleton code with modification or writing a web application from scratch.

The class is taught by Ron Zacharski. He wants the students to understand and remember the material because he know it will be useful for the future of all students who go though the class. Now I might be a bit more biased because I have helped Zacharski with his CPSC110H Intro to Computer Science and I have taken CPSC419 Data Mining with Zacharski. He really knows what he is talking about when compared to others. He wants all of his students to be successful rather than fail.

So that brings me to the topic about this post: "About CPSC350". Like I mentioned before, this class requires that students apply databases to web applications, whether if the assignment is skeleton code or if it has to be a web application built from the ground up. The class is broken up into teams based on how much experience a person has in a certain field. Since I knew Python and SQL well, I was one of the first picks for a team. In the first half of the semester, we ended up taking 4 RATs (Quizzes/Tests that Zacharski calls "Readiness Assessment Tests") and there were 3 Lightning rounds (Which are quick paced team activities to convert English to SQL queries). This half of the semester is based on SQL, ending with a SQL project that has 3 Sprints (formatted with Scrum). The second half of the semester is learning about different NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB.

## XP System

Zacharski sets up an Experience Point system for his grades. The more points you get, the higher your letter grade becomes. In the beginning, everyone starts at F but as the class goes on the letter grades and levels go up. It is designed so that the effort that you put into the class is what you get as a grade at the end of the semester. I love this system while other students don't.

## Karma

Something that Zacharski rewards that no other professor does is when students help each other to better themselves in a class. I am not talking about giving someone code and letting them steal it, but I am talking about how students help other students understand concepts better without the professor having to get involved.

When Zacharski notices students who help others frequently, he gives out Karma XP. This fluxuates based on how often help is given to other students. In all of Zacharski's classes, he uses Piazza. Piazza is an only open forum only for students in the class that Zacharski is teaching. Piazza can be used to give general notes, ask questions, or even show code (not in the bad way).

It is nice that when a professor notices that you help a lot of students that you get rewarded for that type of behavior. 

## Rudiments

In order for the class to keep on track and have students learning new things with each project, Zacharski implemented a Rudiment system. Rudiments are small projects that focus on one small task that students need to complete in order to gain XP and learn something useful. The good thing about rudiments is that they are small projects that, to me, have not taken too long to complete.

### The Good

The good thing about rudiments is that students will remember what they have done in the rudiments because they had to spent more than an hour on each rudiment. The rudiments also aim to teach students new concepts and technologies that traditional Computer Science courses won't go over or don't reward students that go above and beyond.

### The Bad

The bad thing about rudiments is that on average, rudiments should be completed in 10 hours or less. I have not had a problem with this "time constraint" as some would say, but average students could easily spent more than 10 or 15 hours on a single rudiment because they have to learn new material.

### Redeeming Qualities

The redeeming quality of Rudiments is that they force the student to research on their own. This encourages good behavior because at a real job, you are encouraged to Google and research new technologies and ways to solve problems. Many people in the class don't see this because they believe in a strict, rigid structure for college and not a way to better prepare students for the future.

# RATs
RATs seem to be an issue with many students because they have never thought of a quiz or test like how a RAT is structured. The first part of a RAT is an individual test and you can put 5 points spread across 5 answers. If you know answer A is correct, you'd put 5 points, but if you are unsure if C or E is correct, you can split the 5 points into 3 and 2. And if you really don't know the answer, you can put 1 point on each of the 5 answers. Personally I love RATs for this.

The second half of the RATs is taking the same individual test over with your team, but now you are handed a scratch off sheet. This sheet has 5 scratable areas for each of the 5 answer choices. There is a little star that you can uncover when you scratch the sheet and that shows that the answer is correct. If you don't get it right on the first try, the possible ammount of points from 5 goes down, each time until it is 1 point on the 4th scratch.

# Lightning Rounds
Lightning Rounds are the fun portion of the class, if you have a good team. I found these more to be experience gainers if people in your group were ahead and not stuck behind. Case in point with the last Lightning Round. My team was able to get 135 XP while another team in the other section of the class only got 25 XP. It's not a fair part of the class because if your team sucks, then you suffer. Luckily my team did not suck. If you have a good team, you will learn a lot about going from English sentences to SQL queries.

# Why do I bother talking about this?

I bother talking about this because I want more people to understand the type of classroom enviroment that needs to be promoted. Currently, there have not been any other Computer Science courses that I have been in that I can say that I remember 90% of the material besides the ones that I have taken with Zacharski. So I took the time to talk about this type of environment for learning because I think it is beneficial.

# Where is this blog heading?

Now that I have finished talking about the structure and the environment that I had for CPSC350, I can focus more on things that I have learned and what I have found cool in the class. They won't be as dry as the past few posts but like I said, I feel like it was necessary to talk about the learning environment that Zacharski has for his classes.
